[Music]
you're watching Al jazer I want to tell
you straight away about some breaking
news that has just come in uh we are
told sources have told Al jazer that
Hamas has submitted its response to the
US outlined ceasefire proposal that's
coming as Hamas and the Palestinian
Islamic Jihad group issued a joint
statement expressing Readiness to reach
a deal now according to sources they
have made some amendments the Amendments
include a withdrawal from the entire
Gaza Strip including the Rafa Crossing
and the Philadelphia Corridor we'll try
and get you more details as they come in
and then we'll share them with you um at
this juncture I want to bring in our
guest James Elder he is a UNICEF
spokesperson and he joins us live from
in Gaza James grateful to have you with
us um you're back in Gaza how would you
describe the situation
hell on Earth Lea um after what happened
over the weekend to be today in alaxa
hospital um where which was already
packed already Beyond capacity last week
and then to have 400 people with these
horrendous wounds of War coming in the
space of an hour so again today walking
around with a doctor with these
incredible Physicians who are doing
24-hour shifts we're walking over
children with these wounds of War on the
floor you know with head with head
injuries because the capacity has just
been absolutely absolutely devastated it
felt like it could have been day one of
this horrendous war on children it is of
course day 250 and then to leave the
hospital and of course all we see is
Rubble I I I walk outside and and there
is there is a lady who's in tears
because her family home has been
destroyed her husband's killed and she
just wants wants a tent Lea as you and
your viewers know these stories are
everywhere but they're Relentless and
that's why we hope this talk of a
ceasefire for th those people in power
who seem to be honest utterly
disconnected from the suffering of the
civilians of Gaza hopefully now this is
that moment because people from what I'm
seeing this time around look like
they're just hanging on just hanging on
I mean the atrocities that have been
unfolding have been truly shocking what
do you make you know as as you're
witnessing the situation there where you
are on the ground and the wrangling over
the ceasefire that just contined
news yeah it is I I think you know we
have to move beyond the words we have to
look at at the evidence on the ground
and the evidence on the ground literally
in terms of the rubble or literally with
Wounded children in tears on the ground
is there for all to see the intent here
has been the devastation of Gaza and the
devastation of Gaza from schools and and
universities the education to the
agriculture to to the learning capacity
it's it's it's been ubiquitous uh and we
see this across now the G of strip to
see a million people have had to move
from Rafa exhausted Shell Shocked to try
again and find another home Believe It
or Not There is a shortage now of tents
and people are under plastic sheeting
it's 45 degrees so I think it's very
clear what the reality is that people
are enduring now of course they hold on
to hope people have to hold on to Hope
Lea when I meet people again people I've
become friends with and I say how are
you which sounds like such a silly
question their response is alive this is
people are grateful for being alive it
is insane that that this beautiful
Society is being reduced to gratitude
for being alive so yes the ceasefire
needs to look into the eyes of doctors
who ask me how much more evidence does
the Western World need or children who
simply plead plead to see their parents
again this is what this fire hopefully
hopefully will bring James Elder UNICEF
spokesperson sir thank you so very
much and I want to go now to Imran Khan
who is in the Jordanian Capital Aman uh
just to get some more on that breaking
news that we've been telling you about
Imran I understand you're joining us on
the phone can you hear me
okay yeah I've got you Imran uh so as
we've just uh broke the news that Hamas
has submitted its response to the US
outlin ceasefire proposal what are you
hearing from your side well what Hamas
sources have told Al jazer is they are
ready and have submitted a response to
the proposed ceasefire deal to the qari
and Egyptian mediators this is a joint
statement that they have released so
it's now very clear that they are
willing to negotiate earlier in the day
uh we heard from an Hamas official after
the resolution uh news had broken in the
security Council that Hamas were willing
to send negotiators this is now a step
forward to that they've responded to the
Egyptians and the qataris Hamas are now
ready to do something that will get to a
ceasefire the ball is now in Israel's
Court remember the ceas the original
ceasefire deal that put forward he
always said this is the Israeli
ceasefire
deal Israel was quite surprised by that
um and what Israel said was we are
willing to perhaps commit to the first
phase of this which is a original six
week Seas deal and then um the release
of captives uh but what Anthony blinkin
has done for the last four days uh is
talk about the idea that this is on
Hamas Hamas need to respond Hamas need
to do something this is on Hamas well
this is now hamas's response Hamas have
quite clearly um said they are willing
to negotiate and
this let's see what happens in the next
couple of days remember on Wednesday
Anthony blinkin is in Doha there is a
press conference happening at 5:00 p.m.
local time with the air of Qatar he's
going to have to take in this Hamas
response and talk about that at the
ceasefire at the um sorry the uh press
conference so right now it's very
breaking news there's only a few details
that we have but the clear messages from
both Palestinian Islamic Jihad and Hamas
that they are willing to talk they're
willing to talk Imran but a salian
detail here according to sources is they
um they have made some amendments and
the Amendments include a withdrawal from
the entire Gaza strip including Rafa
Crossing and the Philadelphia Corridor
are these non-starters though for the
Israelis well Hamas have actually always
called for a permanent ceasefire that
was always what they were working
towards all of these are now just
negotiating details whether they're
negotiating right now in public which is
what's happening or whether they're
negotiating in private hamas's position
has always been very clear a permanent
seire that's something Israel does not
want to do prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has always been very very
clear we need to destroy Hamas both
politically and mil
militarily most of his actual generals
most of the Israeli security
establishment thinks that that goal may
not be able to happen in the way the
Prime Minister
wants so although they've been clear on
the details they haven't changed the
Hamas haven't changed their position
it's always been about a permanent
ceasefire for
Hamas it's always been about a permanent
ceasefire for Hamas I'm just wondering
in terms of from the Israeli
leadership's perspective of specifically
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu um you
know if they if he were to accept a
ceasefire would that essentially spell
out the end of his government
that is a question that
I sorry I can you still hear me yes
you're we can hear you Iman uh that is a
question better put to analysts and
people who are have an opinion all I can
report is the news to
you and the news and sorry I'm I'm
pausing slightly because it is a very
awkward question to answer here's here's
the
thing in Israel the common thinking is
that if uh there's an end to the war and
there is a a new election prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu loses so he continues
the war because he wants to stay in
power that is an opinion that many
people in Israel hold I think that's the
only way I can answer that question
gotcha no worries so Imran in terms of
you know uh up to now we I mean we've
heard today from uh US Secretary of
State uh uh blinkin Anthony blinkin but
I'm wondering have we heard from um
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
endorsing uh this resolution that was
passed in uh the uh un Security
Council well let me tell you the
response to the UN Security Council
resolution was incredibly muted the only
real thing that we heard was actually a
statement by the uh US Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin who turned around
and said
Mr Benjamin who has committed to a ceas
fire
proposal compare that to what
happened with the last three C5
proposals when Israel went after the
United Nations and said the United
Nations are anti-israeli the United
Nations are
anti-semitic um they couldn't do that
with this resolution because it was us
Le and even the Israelis would not
criticize the US now backstage uh there
was a lot of confusion because Anthony
uh sorry President Joe Biden had always
said that this was the Israeli proposal
that they were putting forward in Israel
there was a lot of surprise about that
because they thought that they would
commit to the first stage of it which is
a six week ceasefire and then the
release of some captives and then
another stage but what they didn't want
is is the idea that the third stage
would
be Israeli troops withdrawing from the
Gaza Strip and the rebuilding of
Gaza prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
has been absolutely clear about this and
I'm going to repeat this again he wants
to destroy Hamas politically and
militarily in his close circles and in
the far-right government the ceasefire
deal is being seen as allowing Hamas to
survive and that's a big political
problem for the Prime
Minister Imran Khan reporting Imran
grateful for uh your reporting and uh
thank you